Rahul Raj R
CAPG49LSRB454
Batch-49

1.What is difference in Overloading and Over riding?
Two or more methods in the same class have same names but different parameters, then it is overloading.
 Whereas, when the method name and parameters are same in the super class and child class, then it is overriding.

2.If both the functions are statis can we over ride?
No, because method overriding is based on dynamic biding at runtime and static methods are at compile time.

3. Diffference bewteen Final , Finally and Finalize
Java Final keyword is a non-access specifier that is used to restrict a class, variable, and method

The Finally keyword is used to create a block of code that follows a try block/cach block

Finalize is the method in Java which is used to perform clean up processing just before an object is garbage collected

4.What are maker Interfaces
A marker interface is an interface that has no methods or constants inside it. It provides run-time type information about objects, 
so the compiler and JVM have additional information about the object. A marker interface is also called a tagging interface.

5.What is Singleton class?
A Singleton class in Java allows only one instance to be created and provides global access to all other classes through this single object or instance.
 Similar to the static fields, The instance fields(if any) of a class will occur only for a single time.

6.What is the underlying Data structure for Arraylist and Linkedlist?
ArrayList uses the Array data structure, and LinkedList uses the DoublyLinkedList data structure.

7.What is hash collitition?
A collision occurs when more than one value to be hashed by a particular hash function hash to the
 same slot in the table or data structure (hash table) being generated by the hash function.

8.What are lambda Expressions?
A lambda expression is a short block of code which takes in parameters and returns a value. Lambda expressions are similar to methods,
 but they do not need a name and they can be implemented right in the body of a method.

9.Whats is functional interface?
A functional interface is an interface that contains only one abstract method.
 They can have only one functionality to exhibit. From Java 8 onwards, lambda expressions can be used to represent the instance of a functional interface.

10.What are optional classes in Java 8?
Ans. optional class is a class which is used to avoid null ckecks and null pointer exception.

11.Whats is factory design pattern and Adapter and difference between them ?
A Factory Design Pattern is an interface or abstract class for creating an object but let the subclasses decide which class to instantiate.
Adapter dESIGN pattern works as a bridge between two incompatible interfaces. This type of design pattern comes under structural pattern as this pattern combines the capability of two independent interfaces.

Factory Pattern does the operation on the created objects (the factory class done the job after creation), 
whereas Adapter pattern is used after the application components are designed so that we can use them without modifying the source code.

12.What are Solid principles ?
These principles establish practices that lend to developing software with considerations for maintaining and extending as the project grows. 
Adopting these practices can also contribute to avoiding code smells, refactoring code, and Agile or Adaptive software development.
It’s a mnemonic acronym for the following five design principles:

Single Responsibility Principle
Open/Closed Principle
Liskov Substitution Principle
Interface Segregation Principle
Dependency Inversion

13. What does @component and @scan do in Sprinboot annaotation
@Component is an annotation that allows Spring to automatically detect our custom beans. 
In other words, without having to write any explicit code, Spring will Scan our application for classes annotated with @Component. Instantiate them and inject any specified dependencies into them.

With Spring, we use the @ComponentScan annotation along with the @Configuration annotation to specify the packages that we want to be scanned. 
@ComponentScan without arguments tells Spring to scan the current package and all of its sub-packages

14. Whats is the Difference bew JPA , Hibernate and ORM?
Java Persistence API (JPA) defines the management of relational data in the Java applications. 

Hibernate is a tool which is used to save the state of     Java object into the database. It is just a specification. Various ORM tools implement it for data persistence.

Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) is the process of converting Java objects to database tables. In other words, this allows us to interact with a relational database without any SQL.

15.What is indexing in Database ?
Indexing is a way to optimize the performance of a database by minimizing the number of disk accesses required when a query is processed. 
It is a data structure technique which is used to quickly locate and access the data in a database. 

16.What are 4 types of Drivers in JDBC ?
There are five types of JDBC drivers in use:

Type 1: JDBC-ODBC bridge
Type 2: partial Java driver
Type 3: pure Java driver for database middleware
Type 4: pure Java driver for direct-to-database
Type 5: highly-functional drivers with superior performance

17.What is difference between @component and @bean and @service ?
@bean - It is used to explicitly declare a single bean, rather than letting Spring do it automatically. 
@component - If any class is annotated with @Component it will be automatically detect by using classpath scan.
@Service is a stereotype for the service layer.It annotates classes at the service layer.

18. What is difference between SOAP and restful services technically ?
SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol
REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer.

REST is a set of guidelines that offers flexible implementation, whereas SOAP is a protocol with specific requirements like XML messaging.

19 . Difference in POST and PUT ?
PUT method is call when you have to modify a single resource, which is already a part of resource collection.
POST method is call when you have to add a child resource under resources collection

20. Is react uni directional or Bi directional ?
React, a Javascript library, uses unidirectional data flow and doesn't support bi-directional binding